---
layout: release
version: 6.0.0
date: 2018-10-22
mc_release: October 2018
---
* **Implemented Tenant-Specific Endpoint support for Marketing Cloud Accounts** -- New Marketing Cloud MobilePush applications will be configured with account-specific settings. See [Configure the SDK]({{ site.baseurl }}/get-started/apple.html#4-configure-the-sdk) for instructions on configuring your SDK's values.

* **Removed SDK-provided web view for URLs** -- We removed the SDK's built-in URL presenter to remove security concerns.  As such, you must provide the SDK with a delegate and implementation of the `MarketingCloudSDKURLHandlingDelegate` protocol if your message will redirect to a web URL, resource, file or other business logic driven custom application schema. See [Handling URLs]({{ site.baseurl }}/sdk-implementation/implementation-urlhandling.html) for more information.

 > SDK API REMOVAL `MarketingCloudSDKCloudPageMessagesNotificationHandlerDelegate`, `MarketingCloudSDKOpenDirectMessagesNotificationHandlerDelegate` and `MarketingCloudSDKInboxMessagesNotificationHandlerDelegate` protocols and protocol methods have been removed from the SDK. Please change your code to implement the MarketingCloudSDKURLHandlingDelegate protocol.

* **Inbox Functionality Improvements** -- When an Alert+Inbox push notification arrives with the app in the foreground, Inbox messages will be reloaded from the server automatically.

* **Inbox Functionality Improvements** -- Inbox message handling better tracks "active" messages in the inbox (according to start and end date values).

* **SDK Configuration** -- Added option to configure SDK via runtime values passed to SDK (`sfmc_configureWithDictionary:`)