---
layout: release
version: 6.1.3
date: 2019-02-11
mc_release: January 2019
---
* **Implemented location message segmentation**—The SDK now supports app control over which geofence and beacon messages are displayed. Use the region information provided for geofence and beacon messages in your notification presentation logic. Review [Location Message Segmentation]({{ site.baseurl }}/location/geolocation-segmentation.html).

* **Implemented predictive intelligence identifier (PIID) configuration options and APIs**—You can configure the identifier for predictive intelligence analytics according to how you use Personalization Builder. Configure your applications to use either existing contact key data or a PI-specific identifier. Review [Einstein Recommendations and Collect API Integration]({{ site.baseurl }}/analytics/personalization-collect.html).

* **Added time for iOS file protection transitions**—To ensure that iOS file protection transitions are complete before the SDK completes configuration, we added a guarding mechanism. Now, to accommodate these transitions, the SDK waits up to 5 seconds, without blocking other functions. If UIApplication's `isProtectedDataAvailable` returns NO, configuration will fail.

* **Fixed predictive intelligence analytics issues**—Fixed issues related to sending predictive intelligence analytics if the `MID` configuration value is used.

* **Fixed location messaging issue**—Previously, reloading location messages from the server could show a display-limited message again, contrary to the message setting. This has been fixed.
