---
layout: release
version: 6.2.0
date: 2019-04-23
mc_release: April 2019
---
* **Required app endpoint (tenant-specific endpoint)**—To pass the SDK's configuration, an app endpoint is now required. [Find the app endpoint](https://help.salesforce.com/articleView?id=mc_mp_provisioning_info.htm&type=5#mc_mp_provisioning_info) for your app under Administration in MobilePush. Review [Configuration Requirements]({{ site.baseurl }}/get-started/apple.html) for details.

* **Added application badging override**—A new SDK configuration value gives you full control of your app’s badge value. Review [Application Badging]({{ site.baseurl }}/application-badging/application-badging.html) for details.

* **Added ability to delay registration until contact key is set**—Use a new SDK configuration value to delay registrations to Marketing Cloud until a contact key is set via `sfmc_setContactKey:`. Review [Delay Registration]({{ site.baseurl }}/sdk-implementation/user-data.html) for details.

* **Inbox messages support `sendDateUtc` for Sorting**—Inbox messages delivered to your app now include the date that the message was sent. App users can sort their inbox based on this value. Review [Inbox]({{ site.baseurl }}/inbox/inbox.html) for details.

* **Better tracking of open from push analytics**—The tracking of "open from push" analytics when an application is not running will now be captured more effectively if the SDK is configured asynchronously.

* **Fixed issue with the ConfigurationBuilder**—There was an issue with using the builder method of configuring the SDK which may have caused an authorization error when contacting Marketing Cloud.